README.md, before:

# nlm - NotebookLM CLI Tool 📚

`nlm` is a command-line interface for Google's NotebookLM, allowing you to manage notebooks, sources, and audio overviews from your terminal.

🔊 Listen to an Audio Overview of this tool here: [https://notebooklm.google.com/notebook/437c839c-5a24-455b-b8da-d35ba8931811/audio](https://notebooklm.google.com/notebook/437c839c-5a24-455b-b8da-d35ba8931811/audio).

## Installation 🚀

```bash
go install github.com/tmc/nlm/cmd/nlm@latest
```

### Usage 

```shell
Usage: nlm <command> [arguments]

Notebook Commands:
  list, ls          List all notebooks
  create <title>    Create a new notebook
  rm <id>           Delete a notebook
  analytics <id>    Show notebook analytics

Source Commands:
  sources <id>      List sources in notebook
  add <id> <input>  Add source to notebook
  rm-source <id> <source-id>  Remove source
  rename-source <source-id> <new-name>  Rename source
  refresh-source <source-id>  Refresh source content
  check-source <source-id>  Check source freshness

Note Commands:
  notes <id>        List notes in notebook
  new-note <id> <title>  Create new note
  edit-note <id> <note-id> <content>  Edit note
  rm-note <note-id>  Remove note

Audio Commands:
  audio-create <id> <instructions>  Create audio overview
  audio-get <id>    Get audio overview
  audio-rm <id>     Delete audio overview
  audio-share <id>  Share audio overview

Generation Commands:
  generate-guide <id>  Generate notebook guide
  generate-outline <id>  Generate content outline
  generate-section <id>  Generate new section

Other Commands:
  auth              Setup authentication
```

<details>
<summary>📦 Installing Go (if needed)</summary>

### Option 1: Using Package Managers

**macOS (using Homebrew):**
```bash
brew install go
```

**Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):**
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install golang
```

**Linux (Fedora):**
```bash
sudo dnf install golang
```

### Option 2: Direct Download

1. Visit the [Go Downloads page](https://go.dev/dl/)
2. Download the appropriate version for your OS
3. Follow the installation instructions:

**macOS:**
- Download the .pkg file
- Double-click to install
- Follow the installer prompts

**Linux:**
```bash
# Example for Linux AMD64 (adjust version as needed)
wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.21.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go
sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.21.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

### Post-Installation Setup

Add Go to your PATH by adding these lines to your `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`, or equivalent:
```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin
export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin
```

Verify installation:
```bash
go version
```
</details>

## Authentication 🔑

First, authenticate with your Google account:

```bash
nlm auth
```

This will launch Chrome to authenticate with your Google account. The authentication tokens will be saved in `.env` file.

## Usage 💻

### Notebook Operations

```bash
# List all notebooks
nlm list

# Create a new notebook
nlm create "My Research Notes"

# Delete a notebook
nlm rm <notebook-id>

# Get notebook analytics
nlm analytics <notebook-id>
```

### Source Management

```bash
# List sources in a notebook
nlm sources <notebook-id>

# Add a source from URL
nlm add <notebook-id> https://example.com/article

# Add a source from file
nlm add <notebook-id> document.pdf

# Add source from stdin
echo "Some text" | nlm add <notebook-id> -

# Rename a source
nlm rename-source <source-id> "New Title"

# Remove a source
nlm rm-source <notebook-id> <source-id>
```

### Note Operations

```bash
# List notes in a notebook
nlm notes <notebook-id>

# Create a new note
nlm new-note <notebook-id> "Note Title"

# Edit a note
nlm edit-note <notebook-id> <note-id> "New content"

# Remove a note
nlm rm-note <note-id>
```

### Audio Overview

```bash
# Create an audio overview
nlm audio-create <notebook-id> "speak in a professional tone"

# Get audio overview status/content
nlm audio-get <notebook-id>

# Share audio overview (private)
nlm audio-share <notebook-id>

# Share audio overview (public)
nlm audio-share <notebook-id> --public
```

## Examples 📋

Create a notebook and add some content:
```bash
# Create a new notebook
notebook_id=$(nlm create "Research Notes" | grep -o 'notebook [^ ]*' | cut -d' ' -f2)

# Add some sources
nlm add $notebook_id https://example.com/research-paper
nlm add $notebook_id research-data.pdf

# Create an audio overview
nlm audio-create $notebook_id "summarize in a professional tone"

# Check the audio overview
nlm audio-get $notebook_id
```

## Advanced Usage 🔧

### Debug Mode

Add `-debug` flag to see detailed API interactions:

```bash
nlm -debug list
```

### Environment Variables

- `NLM_AUTH_TOKEN`: Authentication token (stored in ~/.nlm/env)
- `NLM_COOKIES`: Authentication cookies (stored in ~/.nlm/env)
- `NLM_BROWSER_PROFILE`: Chrome profile to use for authentication (default: "Default")

These are typically managed by the `auth` command, but can be manually configured if needed.

## Contributing 🤝

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License 📄

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

docs(README.md): add fork notice and purpose section
Add a fork notice to clarify the repository's origin and purpose.
The notice explains that this is a personal fork of the original
repository, outlines the goals of the fork, and credits both the
original author and the current maintainer. This information is
important for transparency and helps users understand the
repository's context and objectives.

README.md, after:

> **🚨 Fork Notice**
> 
> This repository is a personal fork of [tmc/nlm](https://github.com/tmc/nlm), an experimental command-line interface for Google's [NotebookLM](https://notebooklm.google.com/).
> 
> The purpose of this fork is to:
> - Fix JSON unmarshaling issues affecting `nlm list`
> - Improve cross-platform compatibility and usability
> - Extend functionality for podcast automation and terminal workflows
> 
> Original author: [@tmc](https://github.com/tmc)  
> Fork maintained by: [@chenle02](https://github.com/chenle02)

---
# nlm - NotebookLM CLI Tool 📚

`nlm` is a command-line interface for Google's NotebookLM, allowing you to manage notebooks, sources, and audio overviews from your terminal.

🔊 Listen to an Audio Overview of this tool here: [https://notebooklm.google.com/notebook/437c839c-5a24-455b-b8da-d35ba8931811/audio](https://notebooklm.google.com/notebook/437c839c-5a24-455b-b8da-d35ba8931811/audio).

## Installation 🚀

```bash
go install github.com/tmc/nlm/cmd/nlm@latest
```

### Usage 

```shell
Usage: nlm <command> [arguments]

Notebook Commands:
  list, ls          List all notebooks
  create <title>    Create a new notebook
  rm <id>           Delete a notebook
  analytics <id>    Show notebook analytics

Source Commands:
  sources <id>      List sources in notebook
  add <id> <input>  Add source to notebook
  rm-source <id> <source-id>  Remove source
  rename-source <source-id> <new-name>  Rename source
  refresh-source <source-id>  Refresh source content
  check-source <source-id>  Check source freshness

Note Commands:
  notes <id>        List notes in notebook
  new-note <id> <title>  Create new note
  edit-note <id> <note-id> <content>  Edit note
  rm-note <note-id>  Remove note

Audio Commands:
  audio-create <id> <instructions>  Create audio overview
  audio-get <id>    Get audio overview
  audio-rm <id>     Delete audio overview
  audio-share <id>  Share audio overview

Generation Commands:
  generate-guide <id>  Generate notebook guide
  generate-outline <id>  Generate content outline
  generate-section <id>  Generate new section

Other Commands:
  auth              Setup authentication
```

<details>
<summary>📦 Installing Go (if needed)</summary>

### Option 1: Using Package Managers

**macOS (using Homebrew):**
```bash
brew install go
```

**Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):**
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install golang
```

**Linux (Fedora):**
```bash
sudo dnf install golang
```

### Option 2: Direct Download

1. Visit the [Go Downloads page](https://go.dev/dl/)
2. Download the appropriate version for your OS
3. Follow the installation instructions:

**macOS:**
- Download the .pkg file
- Double-click to install
- Follow the installer prompts

**Linux:**
```bash
# Example for Linux AMD64 (adjust version as needed)
wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.21.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go
sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.21.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

### Post-Installation Setup

Add Go to your PATH by adding these lines to your `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`, or equivalent:
```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin
export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin
```

Verify installation:
```bash
go version
```
</details>

## Authentication 🔑

First, authenticate with your Google account:

```bash
nlm auth
```

This will launch Chrome to authenticate with your Google account. The authentication tokens will be saved in `.env` file.

## Usage 💻

### Notebook Operations

```bash
# List all notebooks
nlm list

# Create a new notebook
nlm create "My Research Notes"

# Delete a notebook
nlm rm <notebook-id>

# Get notebook analytics
nlm analytics <notebook-id>
```

### Source Management

```bash
# List sources in a notebook
nlm sources <notebook-id>

# Add a source from URL
nlm add <notebook-id> https://example.com/article

# Add a source from file
nlm add <notebook-id> document.pdf

# Add source from stdin
echo "Some text" | nlm add <notebook-id> -

# Rename a source
nlm rename-source <source-id> "New Title"

# Remove a source
nlm rm-source <notebook-id> <source-id>
```

### Note Operations

```bash
# List notes in a notebook
nlm notes <notebook-id>

# Create a new note
nlm new-note <notebook-id> "Note Title"

# Edit a note
nlm edit-note <notebook-id> <note-id> "New content"

# Remove a note
nlm rm-note <note-id>
```

### Audio Overview

```bash
# Create an audio overview
nlm audio-create <notebook-id> "speak in a professional tone"

# Get audio overview status/content
nlm audio-get <notebook-id>

# Share audio overview (private)
nlm audio-share <notebook-id>

# Share audio overview (public)
nlm audio-share <notebook-id> --public
```

## Examples 📋

Create a notebook and add some content:
```bash
# Create a new notebook
notebook_id=$(nlm create "Research Notes" | grep -o 'notebook [^ ]*' | cut -d' ' -f2)

# Add some sources
nlm add $notebook_id https://example.com/research-paper
nlm add $notebook_id research-data.pdf

# Create an audio overview
nlm audio-create $notebook_id "summarize in a professional tone"

# Check the audio overview
nlm audio-get $notebook_id
```

## Advanced Usage 🔧

### Debug Mode

Add `-debug` flag to see detailed API interactions:

```bash
nlm -debug list
```

### Environment Variables

- `NLM_AUTH_TOKEN`: Authentication token (stored in ~/.nlm/env)
- `NLM_COOKIES`: Authentication cookies (stored in ~/.nlm/env)
- `NLM_BROWSER_PROFILE`: Chrome profile to use for authentication (default: "Default")

These are typically managed by the `auth` command, but can be manually configured if needed.

## Contributing 🤝

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License 📄

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
